begins with incredibly fast swirling mass of legato winds and possibly strings.
mass probably confined to relatively tight register. mass caught in loops.
loops decelerate independently of each other to effet a bleeding out of the
energy with which the piece starts. eventually mass reaches very slow steady
state that effects a slowly inflected chromatic defective cluster pedal. what
happens together with this? there are probably an orchestrated pedal or two
that may undergo their own process while the mass deflates. also the
woodblock underspine begins not too long after the start of the piece. so the
woodblock underspine is present during pretty much the entire opening and
continues past the opening. tapering is important because other materials must
begin during the tail end of the deflation of the mass and must attract the
listeners' attention to the next sequence of events before the mass has had a
chance to reach its true endstate. this means that the woodblock underspine
lays in wait during the entire duration of the deflation and changes not at
all. if the mass comprises only the four winds then strings can be used to
orchestrate a pedal that lies in wait during the first part of the deflation
but then begins to develop during the second part of the deflation and develops
a lot of energy aggressively. the guitar and piano are also present from the
beginning of the piece and both lie in wait during the entirety of the opening
material. so the sequence of developmental steps begins with the winds
deflating and then moves to the strings becoming increasingly aggressive and
then moves to the winds finihsing the opening material and then moves to the
animation of the guitar and piano (and only much later moves to the ensemble
noticing the woodblock underspine). it is also probabaly the case the winds
lower and register and then become incredibly loud and aggressive as they
deflate. this suggests that the piece opens with the bass clarinet, baritone
saxophony and english horn with the choice of flute left open but probably
the bass flute. the endstate of the deflation is probably a very long sustained
period of aggressive multiphonics and the duration of the multiphonic endstate
must be so long as to allow two or three idea layers to be already well
underway by the moment the multiphonics stop.